2026 Fall BCHM 3100K Section 03 (81058)
Last updated Mar 12, 2026
Print
Course Description and Prerequisites
Course Outcomes
School Information
Faculty Information
Class Details
Final Exam Details
Online/Proctored Tests
Web Conferencing
Required Course Materials
Resources Needed
Course Grading
K Course Grading Policy
Important Dates
Course Outline/Assessments
Course Changes
Expectations
Academic Integrity
Artificial Intelligence
Attendance Policy and Absences
Complaints and Grade Appeals
Learning Resources
Access and Accommodations
Well-being and Safety
Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Statement
Sexual Misconduct Statement
keyboard_arrow_down
searchQuick Search
Syllabus Library
Logout
School of Science and Technology
BCHM 3100K Section 03 (81058)
Biochemistry with Laboratory
2026 Fall
Course Description and Prerequisites

Prerequisite :CHEM 2212K or (CHEM 2211K and BIOL 3400K) or (CHEM 2211K and ISCI 3800) A study of the structure and function of biological molecules, enzymology, metabolism and bioenergetics. Upon completion of this course, students will: (1) describe the three dimensional structural and functional relationship of proteins; (2) trace intermediary metabolism from macromolecules to carbon dioxide including both anabolic and catabolic reactions of glucose; (3) explain enzymatic catalysis with regard to mechanism and kinetics; (4) explain the structure and function of major classes of macromolecules; (5) use technological resources to investigate biochemical problems; (6) apply the scientific method to address hypothetical problems.

Course Outcomes

Upon completion of this course, students will:

(1) Describe the three-dimensional structure and functional relationship of proteins; 

(2) trace intermediary metabolism from macromolecules to carbon dioxide including both anabolic and catabolic reactions of glucose; 

(3) explain enzymatic catalysis with regard to mechanism and kinetics; 

(4) explain the structure and function of major classes of macromolecules; 

(5) use technological resources to investigate biochemical problems; 

(6) apply the scientific method to address hypothetical problems. 

School Information
Vision Statement

The School of Science and Technology (SST) will become recognized in the region and the state for excellence in STEM education at an open access institution. SST faculty will provide effective and relevant courses and programs in science, math, and technology which are characterized by interdisciplinary learning, novel use of educational technology, and an active learning environment that stimulates critical thinking.

Mission Statement

The School of Science and Technology is committed to providing an innovative outcomes-based learning experience for all students of Georgia Gwinnett College. It provides programs of study in biology, math, exercise science, and information technology that offer its students disciplinary and interdisciplinary courses, as well as practical and applied learning experiences that prepare them for post-graduate schooling or for positions of responsibility in education, business, medicine or government. The SST also provides general education experiences that produce graduates who demonstrate math, science, and information technology literacy, and that foster an understanding of the role of these disciplines in our society and in an uncertain and changing world. The School’s faculty maintain competency in their discipline and are knowledgeable of methods of providing innovative active-learning environments.

School of Science and Technology Policies
Class Attendance and Financial Aid

Please be aware that faculty check attendance in each of your courses and are required to report to the Registrar students who never attend or cease attending a course. Students who are reported as never attended or have ceased attending a course, Financial Aid will be notified and is required to adjust your financial aid award accordingly. If you have any questions about how not attending a course for which you are registered will affect your financial aid eligibility, please contact the Financial Aid Office.

If you feel that you are unable to complete your courses due to illness or family emergency, contact the Registrar’s Office to attempt to withdraw from your courses without penalty.

Health & Safety Policy

Certain laboratories include use of strong acids, solvents, and preservatives. Any pregnant women, hypersensitive individuals, or immunocompromised people should report their condition to the instructor and to their physician, preferably before contact with the materials (see lab exercises). Additional instructions for lab will be presented during the first lab. Students are required to follow all instructions. Students failing to conform to lab rules and safety precautions will be first warned by removal from the lab. On second offense, students will be removed from both lecture and lab

Social Media

Follow the School of Science and Technology on Facebook. You will hear about important events and information including Career Services events, scholarships, studies abroad opportunities, summer research opportunities, and employment opportunities.

Faculty Information
Name: Gillian Rudd
Email: grudd@ggc.edu
Office: A1094
Phone: 470-955-0473
Office Hours: Available by request or appointment.
Department: Chemistry
Curriculum Vitae:
Curriculum Vitae
Class Details

Course Details
BCHM 3100K Section 03 (81058)
Course Title: Biochemistry with Laboratory
Credit Hours: 4
Semester Start Date: 08/10/2026 Semester End Date: 12/08/2026
Course Start Date: 08/10/2026 Course End Date: 11/30/2026
Class Meeting Day(s): TR
Class Times: 0930 - 1045  
Modality: In Person
Meeting Location: A-1180
Lab Meeting Day: T
Lab Location: H2-2206
Lab Times: 1100 - 1345







Final Exam Details

The final exam will be given during the week of Dec. 2-8 (Full Session and Session B). The date and time of the final exam is set by the registrar and will be posted at the midpoint of the semester. The exam schedule cannot be changed at the convenience of the student. You should not plan to be absent during that week. A make-up final exam will only be given in cases of a verifiable excused absence. 

Online/Proctored Tests

This class is face to face only, and we will not be going online. If something unforeseeable were to happen, then this course requires the use of a proctored testing service/software such as Respondus LockDown Browser, Respondus Monitor, or ProctorU, and a webcam for online exams. The webcam can be built into your computer or can be the type that plugs in with a USB cable. The software may require you to scan the room in which you are taking the test with your webcam. The video of the room scan is only available to the instructor(s) of record, as well as appropriate IT staff and administrators.

If you are at home and have privacy concerns about a webcam scan of your surroundings, you can take the test anywhere you feel comfortable. If you cannot identify such a place, contact your faculty member prior to the date of the test to arrange for a separate room on campus for testing. 

Web Conferencing

If this course has to go online, it will use  [Microsoft Teams/Zoom] for online “virtual classroom” video conferencing sessions and collaboration activities. Some or all of the sessions may be recorded. Recordings that do not include video of individual students may be made available, and will only be available to the course instructor and the students enrolled in this course.

Required Course Materials
Fundamentals of Biochemistry
ISBN: 9781119903505
Authors: Destin Heilman, Stephen Woski, Donald Voet, Judith G. Voet, Charlotte W. Pratt
Publisher: John Wiley & Sons
Publication Date: 2024-05-14
Notes

Or other text the instructor prefers

Foundations of Biochemistry, 5th Edition
ISBN: 978-1-60263-535-7
Authors: Jenny Loertscher, Vicky Minderhout
Publisher: Pacific Crest
Publication Date: 2010-08-01
Resources Needed
Lab Goggles and a bound lab copy book for lab is required. (example a carbon free copy lab book)
You are required to have a scientific calculator for this course. Any type you know how to use is acceptable. Bring your calculator to every class and every lab session and know how to use it! Be sure to bring your calculator to all exams and to the laboratory practical exam. Only individual calculators may be used during the exams. Calculators may not be shared. Cell phones, laptops, or other non-calculator devices may not be used as substitutes for calculators on quizzes or exams.
Course Grading

You can expect to access the course materials and grades via our course in Brightspace (Desire to Learn). Students should check this Brightspace regularly, as course changes will always be announced and recorded on the course site. Note that both the lecture and the lab components of the course are posted on the same site. Your grade will be calculated by summing the number of points earned for each component (exams, in-class questions, group work, homework assignments etc.) divided by the total points possible, and multiplied to give percent achieved. Grades will be entered on D2L so that students may keep up with their grade status. I will not be including a weighted column in D2L, until after each MT exam, after midterm AND the end of the course (75% class + 25% lab). 

Here is an example if you wish to keep track of your own grade (and there is also a doc in D2L showing how to calculate the theoretical grade of student “Pip Petor”): a student scores 25/40 on quizzes, 300/400 on exams and 50/50 on homework so far, with 50/60 on labs. Thus, the class percentage is 375/490 *100= 76.5%, and the lab percentage is 50/60*100= 83.3%. Weighted, the students thus has [76.5x0.75] + [83.3x0.25] = 57.4 + 20.8= 78.2% overall.

Grading Scale 

A (Excellent) 90-100
B (Good) 80-89
C (Fair) 70-79
D (Poor) 60-69
F (Failure) 59 and below

Grading Percentages

Grading Percentages – Lecture comprises 75% of the total course grade, as per K course policy; Lab comprises 25% of course grade.

Grading Category

	

Points




Exams (5)

	

600




Final Exam 

	

300




Quizzes, in-class and homework

	

200




Total

	

~1100 points from Class

K Course Grading Policy

Grading Percentages – Lab for 25% of the total course grade, pending K course policy.

Grading Category

	

Percent Weight




Prelab and Quizzes

	

25%




Lab Reports

	

50%




Lab Practical Exam

	

25%




Total (lab portion)

	

100% from Lab

Grading Percentages for Lab

Grade Appeals 

Questions regarding the grading of an exam must be resolved within seven days after the graded exam is seen by you. Appeals will be made in writing with the understanding that the entire exam will be subject to re-evaluation. Arithmetic errors may be addressed without a written appeal.

Late Work Policy 

Late Assignments submitted after the due date will lose 10% of the score per day. For a 100-point assignment, this is 10 points per day. If you earn an 85 and turn in one day late, your score will be 75. However, if the work has already been returned to the class graded, then zero points for late submission.
If the student has a valid excuse, it is the student’s responsibility to provide written proof of excuse within 2 days of the assignment’s due date. We can work out a new due date if needed.
Students will have one late pass for assignments, you do not have to provide an explanation, just note that you will use your late pass and have 48 hours to complete and submit the assignment without penalty.

LATE WORK WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED AFTER THE LAST DAY OF GGC CLASSES

K Course Grading Policy

K-Course Policy: Set by the School of Science and Technology

Lecture Lab Final Grade in Class




A or B or C

	

A or B or C

	

A or B or C




D

	

A or B or C or D

	

D




A or B or C or D

	

D

	

D




F

	

A or B or C or D or F

	

F




A or B or C or D or F

	

F

	

F

 

This K course is an integrated classroom and laboratory learning experience with a single final course grade determined from the proportional weight of the classroom and laboratory experience. The grade received in BIOL 1107K includes 75% classroom and 25% laboratory. However, students must earn a C or higher in both class and laboratory to earn a single final course grade of C or higher. As an example for a single final grade calculation, a student in BIOL 1107K earns a 95% (A grade) in the classroom experience and a 55% (F grade) in the laboratory experience. Although the proportional percentage is [(0.75x95) + (0.25x55)] = 85%, the student’s single final grade will be an F for the course. If a student requires a single final course grade of C or higher to progress in a course sequence, meet pre-requisites, satisfy academic program requirements, etc., they must earn at least a C in both the classroom and the laboratory experience. In this case, if a D or F is earned in either portion and the student must repeat the course to satisfy course sequence or academic program requirements, the student must repeat both the classroom and laboratory experience. See the table above for clarification.

Important Dates




Activity	Date
Tuition due Tuition and Fees Deadlines 	July 30
Housing move-in 	Aug. 6-7
Classes begin (Full Session and Session A) 	Aug. 10
Drop/add ends (Session A) 	Aug. 13 
Drop/add ends (Full Session) 	Aug. 16
Mid-term grades due (Session A) 	Sept. 2 
Labor Day holiday 	Sept. 7 
Last day to withdraw with "W" (Session A) 	Sept. 10
Classes end (Session A) 	Sept. 30 
Apply to graduate deadline for Spring 2027 	Oct. 1 
Mid-term grades due (Full Session) 	Oct. 1
Final exams (Session A) Final exam schedules (login required) 	Oct. 1-2
Classes begin (Session B) 	Oct. 5
Drop/add ends (Session B) 	Oct. 8
Last day to withdraw with "W" (Full Session) 	Oct. 13
Mid-term grades due (Session B) 	Oct. 29
Last day to withdraw with "W" (Session B) 	Nov. 4
Thanksgiving break 	Nov. 22-29
Classes end (Full Session) 	Nov. 30
Reading day (Full Session) 	Dec. 1 
Classes end (Session B) 	Dec. 1
Final exams (Full Session and Session B) Final exam schedules (login required) 	Dec. 2-8
Grades due (Full Session and Session B, except eCore) 	Dec. 10, Noon
Commencement 	Dec. 11 
Grades available in Grizzly Den within Banner 	Dec. 14
Important Dates from the GGC Academic Calendar
Course Outline/Assessments

Graded Events

For all graded events in class and lab

The key to “chem-is-try:” attendance is required for each and every class and lab. Most subjects link to previous material, so it is imperative that you are present AND involved for each class. Please contact me regarding absences as soon as possible. It is highly advised that you keep up with reading and preparation for this course. Chemistry is a cumulative subject, material previously learned must be remembered to succeed. Therefore, it is to your advantage to keep up to date with the material being presented. Working extra problems than assigned is highly recommended to fully understand the material. The best way to be successful is to complete ALL readings and assignments.

Absences for graded material will require valid documentation as listed within the Georgia Gwinnett College, Course Catalog. Excused absences include those due to school sponsored activities, hospitalization or documented illness, death in the family or call to military assignment. For school related absences, arrangements must be made PRIOR to the date of absence. In-class quizzes and assignments count towards your grade. If you are not present for an in-class questions or assignment and have not contacted me BEFORE class regarding your absence or do not have an excused absence, you will receive a zero. If you are absent, have not prepared for class and/or are late to class and do not understand current material or announcements (usually at the beginning of class), please hold your questions until the end of class or schedule a meeting with me at a later time. Do not let your absence effect the whole class. Please be aware that unexcused absences will be noted to your mentor and/or additional parties.

Religious Accommodations

GGC supports your right to exercise your faith on campus, as defined by the U.S. and Georgia constitutions. If you feel that you may need a religious accommodation for class attendance, participation or an excuse from class, it is your responsibility to notify me, in writing, of your need for any religious accommodation. That written request must be given to me before the end of the second week of class. A student’s submitted accommodation request should include relevant information such as: 

a description of the accommodation you are requesting;
the reason you need an accommodation; and
how the accommodation will help resolve the conflict between your religious beliefs or practices and a university policy, procedure, or other academic requirement.

Please note: accommodations for religious observance may not be granted if the observance could be done at a time other than class time or at a location other than the preferred location (e.g. if there are additional services at other times, or services offered on campus versus at a home congregation).

Exams

Special arrangements to take a regular exam early must be made in advance in writing. Early exams are available only at my discretion and only under extreme circumstances. There will be five tests and a comprehensive final. Of these, two will be take-home exams. Missed, but excused exams, will be made up using the final exam (percentage of missed exam applied accordingly): I do not give makeup exams. The made-up points for the excused exam, will be allowed only due to extraordinary documented circumstances (accident, illness etc.), and you must contact me before the exam day that you are absent. Notification by email, text or phone message is acceptable. Work missed due to unexcused absences will be given a grade of zero. The comprehensive final exam will be given at the time set by the University registrar. The exam schedule cannot be changed at the convenience of the student. You should not plan to be absent anytime during that week. A make-up final exam will only be given in cases of a verifiable excused absence. All exams are comprehensive of material covered up to that point, but focus on the most recent material.

If you feel that you are unable to complete your courses due to illness or family emergency, contact the Registrar’s Office to attempt to withdraw from your courses without penalty. 

Any use of or copying from unauthorized materials during exams, laboratory reports and/or quizzes will be considered in violation of the GGC Honor Statement, EVEN IF it is completed outside of class. Credit for the exam and/or quiz and/or course may be forfeit and an incident report will be issued to the Dean of Students.

Exam and Quiz Taking Policy

There will be five exams throughout the semester, plus a cumulative final exam. All exams will be given on the dates marked on the table given below, unless there is some unforeseen occurrence that might cause the exam to be moved. Clear and advanced notifications will be given in class for such a case. All students are expected to be present for all exams except in cases of real emergencies. Some examples of cases where you may be excused are:

Major health problems verifiable by a doctor.
Major family crisis verifiable by a family member. 
Necessary sports-related absences verifiable by the coach of the team or other school sponsored activities.
Call to military assignment.

In the case of an emergency, a student will be allowed to excuse an exam, as long as the instructor is notified by phone, email, or in person BEFORE the exam is scheduled to occur. The GGC Honors policy will be enforced during all graded events. Any violations will forfeit grades and be reported.

Lecture 

Class (worth 75% of overall grade) is made up of the following:

Exams (approx. 855 pts, 70%)

Start of Class Quizzes and In-class Questions and Homework (~200-450 pts, 18.2-33%)

Course evaluation (bonus 5 pts): complete this to receive these points.

Exam

	

Date

	

Points

	

% class




1st take-home exam: TH1

	

Posted in week 5 and due week 6

	

75

	

6.8%




2nd take-home exam: TH2

	

Class activity in week 15

	

75

	

6.8%




Midterm 1 exam: MT1

	

To be taken during lab time in week 5

	

150

	

13.6%




Midterm 2 exam: MT2

	

To be taken during lab time in week 11

	

150

	

13.6%




Midterm 3 exam: MT3

	

To be taken during lab time in week 16

	

150

	

13.6%




Comprehensive Final

	

As determined by registrar: Dec 2-8

	

300

	

27.3%




Homework and in-class quizzes

	

Start of class quizzes, and/or end of CA activity exercises as homework (or as set by instructor)

	

~200

	

18.2%




Total pts from exams

	

Final exam will replace the single lowest percentile exam from MT1, MT2, MT3 (it will not replace TH1 or TH2), assuming final exam percentage is higher than lowest percentage obtained

	

900

	

100%

Due Dates for Exams

*there will also be in-class assignments/Homework (Hwk)/ group work/ attendance participation

NO MAKE-UP QUIZZES in-class questions or pop quizzes or homework. Late work will not be graded.

The majority of the test will be based on material emphasized in both the books and in class. You are however responsible for any material in the book which has not been excluded from the test and for material from the lecture which is not in the text. The exams (MT1, MT2 and MT3) are allowed a single 3” by 9” notecard covered both sides in your own handwriting, and these exams will be taken in the lab during lab time.

Each test will usually include some multiple-choice questions for which there is no partial credit. The majority of the test will be objective questions and longer answers on applications of principles to specific cases. These will not usually be the examples done in class or assigned as homework, but other examples which can be solved the same way. In these questions, multiple mistakes are possible. For the first mistake, you will lose half credit. For two or more mistakes, you will lose all the value of the question. NOTE: CELL PHONES or SMART WATCHES ARE NOT ALLOWED AT THE EXAMS.

The final exam will replace the single lowest percentile grade among the three midterm exams (it will not replace TH1 or TH2). For example, a student makes an 84% on the final, and their lowest MT1, MT2, MT3 exam is 74%. Thus, the lowest exam (of 74%) now becomes an 84%. If we have to go back to online class, only then will the final exam be taken on D2L with zoom on so that you can communicate with the instructor during the exam. You MUST have video monitoring software available for these events, and Lockdown browser.

Group Take Home Exams (TH1 & TH2)

Take home exams are to be completed collectively by your group, or on your own.

Here are the rules:

Take Home Exam Groups are the same as your in-class groups.
You may consult with the instructor, or any student in your group.
You may use any published resource (e.g. your textbook or workbook but not the notes of a person outside your group), and you cannot use the internet.
You may NOT consult with or receive aid from any other person (especially other faculty, tutors, or students outside your group). 

Homework 

After each class period you must do the following (if assigned). Complete the in-class section if your group did not finish in class, as instructed by your professor.

Complete the end of ChemActivity CA exercises, and submit at the beginning of the next class by hand (no D2L dropbox). These are the homework questions. 
Do any assigned reading problems in textbook. 
Make a list of sticking points or questions
Read any assigned sections in textbook, and complete any pre-activity assignments ready for next class
Homework submitted after an unexcused absence, will not be graded
It is mandatory to show all work on each assignment to obtain full credit.

Start of class quiz

Daily class quizzes (5 pts per each class covered) will be given at the start of each class to ensure attendance, and they are geared to enhance your learning experience and problem-solving abilities. Cell phones are not allowed before, during or after the daily quiz. There may be a total of up to ~ 26 quizzes and I will drop the lowest x2-4 quizzes. Unexcused absences will not be dropped! There may be smaller, unannounced quizzes (pop-quizzes) that are also administered to encourage class preparation and attendance. Preparing for the quiz will be most effective if you do it in the context of a regular and productive study group, or with a study partner. Just as you would for a successful exercise routine, it is best to set up standing daily dates with your study partner(s). This is the single most important thing you can do to make yourself successful in this course!

Typical class format 

During class: 

Both class and lab will be in person, meeting on campus. I will begin by going over graded assignments, and introduce new material. There will be a prepared video for you to watch before class begins. The bulk of class time will be spent actively thinking, drawing structures, working with models etc. This will be done as part of a self-managed team of three or four students. The purpose of the CA is to learn the material, dispel misconceptions, and to ask questions. Working through the CA will not be graded. Access to the CA’s requires purchase of the POGIL e-text. It is your responsibility to follow along the book CA. I recommend that you PRINT out the “schedule of classes and labs” from the “1st day stuff folder, and cross off the work as you complete it! Use the class GroupMe chat, to ask questions, make comments, say hello etc.

If working in a team: group membership and team management: 

Each team may appoint a manager, or may choose to collectively ensure there is agreement on each question before moving on, that no one is going ahead or falling behind, no one dominates the discussion, and everyone feels comfortable speaking up, especially if they are frustrated, confused or behind. The instructor will assign the group membership for day 1 & then reshuffle group membership for day 2. By the end of day 2 you will be asked to form your own groups. (If you have a conflict in your group, I am happy to help you resolve it. If this does not work, a change can be made.) The more active you are in the process of choosing a group that fit your needs, the more likely you are to be satisfied with your group and have a positive experience in this course. Groups will be assigned breakout rooms in zoom.

For each CA do the following:

Pre-watch the video given in D2L under “online classroom videos” before class, in order to get an idea about the class content. Do not answer the questions!
Show up for class on time, ready to take the daily quiz.
Complete the hwk exercises where indicated for the class. These are the “exercises” at the end of each CA. 
All uploaded work MUST be submitted into the dropbox as ONE pdf document. You can scan into ONE single pdf, using camscanner, which is free. 

Laboratory

Laboratory Grade (worth 25% of overall course grade)

Laboratory grades will be determined by laboratory quizzes, formal lab reports, a final laboratory practical exam, and lab assignments. Each lab assignment will be due at the beginning of the next week’s lab; if remitted at the end of lab, it will be counted as late. There are NO MAKE UP LABS. I will not accept lab assignments from missed labs. You must keep up with your lab assignments and turn them in promptly. Late submissions will be penalized as described below.

Prelab assignments: Your prelab assignment must be remitted by the due date or receive a deduction as outlined in the chart below.
Prelab quizzes: These will be given at the start of each lab, based upon the current lab, and also testing your understanding of past lab content. These are worth ~25% of your lab grade.
Lab Assignments. Assignments will vary per each lab and will be submitted as directed, either through D2L assignment box or in hard copy. These are worth 50% of your lab grade.
Lab report. Formal lab reports will be required as part of your lab grade. 
Laboratory Practical Exam: A final comprehensive laboratory practical exam will be given at the end of the semester. Your practical exam is worth 25% of your lab grade. Lab practical exams cannot be rescheduled.
Participation/Attendance: Lab attendance is mandatory and all students are expected to participate in the lab exercises. If you are not participating or not sharing the work of the lab, I will speak to you in private once. After that time, you will lose 20% from your lab assignment grade for each lab in which you did not participate. You cannot pass the lab without hands-on experience. You will be tested on techniques you will learn in the lab. Unexcused absences will result in a grade of zero for the assignment for that lab exercise. 
Laboratory Safety/Techniques: Safety in the laboratory is a priority concern. Therefore, violations of the safety policies by students will be handled as follows: first offense: warning, second offense: dismissed from lab with a grade of zero, third offense: failing grade in lab and the student will not be allowed re-admittance to lab.

Badging lab skills: This will require successful completion of all five lab skills listed next: Using a model kit; Using a micropipette; Graphing in Excel; Using a spectrophotometer; Performing a serial dilution. Each badging skill is worth from 10 up to 20pts.

The badging will be graded on a sliding scale as indicated below:

-1st attempt correct, obtain full pts total
-2nd attempt correct, less 25% from full pts total
-3rd attempt correct, less 50% from full pts total
-4th or more attempts correct, less 75% from full pts total

If all of your badging is complete and correct before lab in week 13, then obtain 10 pts bonus.

It goes without saying, that each video must be your own work produced in the current semester. You must give your name and show your face and hands in the video at the start, and at the end. A student must submit all five videos for all five badges and then check back into D2L to check if they passed said lab skill. If you don’t pass a badge, you are required to redo your video and resubmit asap. Deadlines for all of the badging videos will be released throughout the semester. You must receive a pass in all five lab skills in order to pass the lab portion. 

Here are example instructions for “using a model kit” and the grading rubric: to earn this badge, each student should take a short video showing themselves taking a structure out of the beaker, reading aloud the letter at the bottom, and then, using your model kit, put together that structure in full. The video will be graded based on the following rubric:

 

	

Yes

	

No




Are there a correct number of carbons?

	

 

	

 




Are there a correct number of hydrogens?

	

 

	

 




Are the types of bonds correct?

	

 

	

 




Is the isomer that is shown correct?

	

 

	

 




Are all non-carbon and non-hydrogen atoms represented correctly?

	

 

	

 



	
	

Rubric for Model Kit

 

In order to gain credit for this badge, the student must correctly perform these items; only one error is allowed. If more than one error is seen in the video, the student will have to redo the badge.

 

The last day to submit a video for the badging skills is Thursday Nov 6. The last day to complete badging correctly and be checked by instructor in-person (no more video uploads accepted), is Tuesday Nov 11. Also, D2L is finicky about file types, and it will not open for example HEIC files. It is important that you check my comments in your D2L video submissions, in case I am unable to open your file!

 

Meeting with me Outside of Class

As always, email, call, text questions as you wish! If you want to have a question answered, I may even be able to do an online Zoom session, just let me know what you need and we will work through this!

Scanning your work and submitting your work

Any assignments that require you to submit your work must be submitted through D2L’s dropbox system, as a single doc pdf. Please download for example CAMSCANNER (an app that is free for both Androids and iPhones). The drop boxes allow only 1 submission (one document), so please do not upload multiple separate documents, as these will NOT be graded. There is a good tutorial here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pc7dkXaer2s

Final Exam Details

The final exam will be given during the week of May 6-12. The exam schedule cannot be changed at the convenience of the student. You should not plan to be absent during that week. A make-up final exam will only be given in cases of a verifiable excused absence.

Course Changes

This course syllabus provides a general plan for this course. The Faculty reserves the right to make changes to the syllabus, including changes to assignments, projects, examinations, etc., in order to accommodate the needs of the class as a whole and fulfill the goals of the course. 

Expectations

For Class:

Keys to success in this course

Good education is a shared responsibility. In order to help you succeed in this course and do your best I will:

Post the syllabus and tentative class schedule into D2L by first day of semester
Give guidance on what is expected of you to succeed on quizzes, exams, and assignments
Keep grades in D2L updated on a timely basis, typically within two weeks
Be on time for class and design class time to help you succeed
Respond to your emails and phone calls in a timely manner according to the Technology Covenant below. My GGC cell and email are at the top of this syllabus
Meet with you outside of class if you need additional help.

In order for you to succeed in this course and do your best you should commit yourself to:

Attend every class and lab on time and prepared to think
Prepare for each class by reviewing the chapter and class notes
Work the assigned problems
Think!! Put this biochemical knowledge into your framework for a holistic understanding of biology

Please feel free ask questions if you are having issues or do not understand course material AFTER you have attempted to learn it on your own. I am happy to help!

Attendance is highly recommended for each and every lecture. Most subjects link to previous material, so it is imperative that you are present AND involved for each class. You should try to keep up with reading and preparation for this course. Biochemistry is a cumulative subject, material previously learned must be recalled for success in this course. Therefore, it is to your advantage to keep up to date with the material being presented. Working extra problems is highly recommended to fully understand the material.

Absences for graded material require valid documentation as listed within the Georgia Gwinnett College, Course Catalog. Excused absences include those due to school sponsored activities, hospitalization or documented illness, death in the family or call to military assignment. For school related absences, arrangements must be made PRIOR to the date of absence. In-class (or lab) quizzes and assignments count towards your grade. If you are not present for an in-class quiz or assignment and have not contacted me BEFORE class regarding your absence or do not have an excused absence, you will receive a zero. If you are absent, have not prepared for class and/or are late to class and do not understand current material or announcements (usually at the beginning of class), please hold your questions until the end of class or schedule a meeting with me at a later time. Do not let your absence affect the whole class.

We will be respectful of one another in this class. All perspectives and backgrounds are relevant. 

Any use of or copying from unauthorized materials during exams, laboratory reports and/or quizzes will be considered in violation of the GGC Honor Statement, EVEN IF it is completed outside of class. Credit for the exam and/or quiz and/or course may be forfeit and an incident report will be issued to the Dean of Students.

Laboratory:

Safety concerns are paramount in lab, and all participants must wear safety goggles/ safety glasses as needed depending on the experiment. Absolutely NO Food or Drink is allowed in the Laboratory setting!! Contact lenses should not be worn in lab. You must wear closed toe shoes at all times and adhere to other safety rules. Labs are MANDATORY exercises and cannot be applied from previous semesters or courses. No makeup labs are given. If you must miss a lab due to a verifiable excused absence (i.e. provide documentation) we can make accommodations, but only if you are prompt and honest in notifying me. If you arrive more than 30 minutes late to lab you will not be able to participate in that lab and will receive a zero for that lab report.

The rationale is that if you are late: 

(i) you have missed vital information for conducting the lab, including safety information, 

(ii) it is not fair to your group members who have already started the lab without you, 

(iii) you will probably not have time to complete the lab. 

If you miss or fail to attend and/or turn in more than two labs, you will receive an F in the lab portion of the course, thus an F in the course overall given the K course rule (above).

Please come prepared for lab and with your calculator. I will not allow you in the lab if you are not prepared for the day’s activities. Before you leave lab, return all items to their proper location. If you do not leave your area clean and items in their proper place, points will be deducted from your lab grade.

You may consult with others regarding lab exercises and questions, but written materials must be completed IN YOUR OWN WORDS. Should someone not be present for lab, you may NOT share information or answers to laboratory exercises UNLESS approved by the instructor. Giving or receiving data or copying answers from your colleagues will be considered a violation of GGC’s honor code.

Feel free to ask me questions regarding any items of the procedure you do not understand! I will be walking around to help you. Should an emergency ever arise – GET MY ATTENTION IMMEDIATELY!!

Course Materials and Grading

You can expect to access the course materials and grades via D2L. Students should check D2L regularly, as course changes will always be announced and recorded on the course D2L site.

There is a gender-neutral restroom located in the walkway between the two portions of H on the first floor.

Instructor Policies

Teaching Philosophy and the Classroom

I am here to help you learn the material covered in class and to help you develop skills that will assist you in learning throughout your academic and professional careers. Please do ask me questions if there is something you don’t understand. My goal is to support your learning inside and outside of class. Ask me to assist you to become the scientist that you aspire to be!

To facilitate learning, please be respectful of your classmates by adhering to the list below:

Be prepared for class
Be on time to class
Limit food and beverages to those that can be consumed quietly
Turn cell phones OFF when we are not using them for the class.
Use computers/tablets in class ONLY to assist your learning of this course material (no shopping or social networking)

Class and Lab Attendance

I expect that you will attend class. Classroom and laboratory attendance are excellent predictors of course grades. Here are some other reasons to attend:

In the event of a documented emergency or serious illness, the instructor will determine class accommodations on a case by case basis. Failure to attend a class or provide a documented excuse (within one day of returning to GGC) will result in a zero for all POGIL classwork/ homework for that portion of the class for that day. Late work will not be graded. There will be no make-ups for exams or quizzes or homework or POGIL work. In the case of a documented excuse, a missed exam will be proportionally made-up by the grade on the final exam.
College policy requires that students attend class.
Attendance is required for the best chance of success in this course. 
There will be no excused absences from the lab sessions. If you must miss a lab period, it is your responsibility to learn the material covered that day. Make every effort to attend each lab meeting.
You have paid big tuition bucks for the opportunity to sit in the virtual classroom and wonder how long an hour can last; failure to attend wastes your money.

Collaboration Policy

Unauthorized collaboration will be considered cheating and penalized as a violation of the GGC Honor Code. Lab reports: you may confer with colleagues but writing and calculations must be done by you and your submission must be in your own words. Identical papers are a violation of the Honor Code. This includes submissions you made before, if you are retaking the course.

Exams are NOT collaborative works.

Cell Phone Policy

Unless requested, please put your cell phone away during our class. During graded events held during lab time, cell phones are NOT allowed.

Texting Policy

Texting during graded events is NOT allowed.

Expectations of Students

All students taking this class need to have access to a computer, that is NOT a Chrome book.

I expect students to access course or individual communications within 1 day excluding weekends.

Tips for Success

Come to all classes.

Be prepared for class. Keep up with the assigned readings and do all the assignments and quizzes.

STUDY. SPEND TIME WITH THE MATERIAL!

You are responsible for learning the material for this course.

Come to class on time and don't leave early. I will make important announcements at the beginning of class.

See me if you have problems with any of the material. Don't wait until the night before the exam.

Don't come to me at the end of the semester and beg for points. Work hard throughout the semester!

Form a study group or find a study buddy. Students that study in groups often do better in the class.

Most importantly, I am here to help you succeed! Not only in this course but also in your academic and professional careers. Please ask questions!

Official Correspondence

When you email me, you should consider the email as official correspondence. As such, the email should not appear as a text message but should have proper grammar and punctuation. Please sign your complete name at the end of the message. Improperly constructed email will be followed with the following response. “At GGC, email is considered official and professional correspondence. I will be glad to help you when you resend the email with proper grammar and punctuation.”

My view of biochemistry

Many students view biochemistry as a cruel hurdle placed in their path to test their tolerance for pain. Consistent with this view, many students’ main goal is to survive the course with a decent grade. I encourage you to expect more from this course for two reasons: 

I have found that students are more successful at biochemistry when they enjoy it, so I have worked hard to create a course that students can enjoy if they work hard.
Biochemistry is an opportunity to hone skills like data analysis, problem solving, and working effectively as part of a group. If you invest the time and energy you will learn skills in this course that will make you more effective in your other courses and in whatever career you choose.

Biochemistry is not a hurdle; it is a staircase to a new and powerful way of dealing with the world. That is why, more than any other course, admissions committees and future employers care about your grade in biochemistry. 

Advice from Past Students

I know you also care about your grade. Who better to give advice about how to be successful in this course than students who have been through it? The following are student answers to the question: What advice do you wish someone had given you at the start? 

You may think (like I did) that group work in biochemistry is a bad idea. (I thought it would be the blind leading the blind.) But it really does work. 
If I was starting out I would want someone to tell me that 1) there are no stupid questions and you should always ask your group because their thoughts will help, 2) get in a group with people you work well with because if you don’t interact well learning is harder, and 3) use your in-class study groups for studying outside of class. Good luck! 
Don’t fall behind. Playing catch up is not fun. Don’t be afraid to ask questions and argue in your group. That is the way learning is done in this class. 
Give yourself some time to settle into group learning. Lots of us did not think we would like it or that it would work. It does.

 

Lab Reports – NO “WORKING TOGETHER” for the writeup

Each student completes the lab activity by his/herself. Students are strongly encouraged to discuss and ask for assistance from other students in class/lab! However, each lab report must be developed and written solely by the student who is submitting it for a grade. “Working together” on a written lab report without the instructor’s prior consent is considered a violation of the GGC Honor Code. Students may discuss with each other concepts or topics that are unclear, but the ideas, structures, and statements submitted on the lab report document MUST be originally conceived by the submitting student. Any/all ideas or information in the lab report NOT originally conceived by the submitting student must be referenced and footnoted. 

Expectations of Students: I expect all students to prepare the pre-activity assignment before coming to every class, and read and prepare for lab, before coming to lab. Class and lab time is used to address your specific questions and to learn by doing. I will rarely lecture during class and lab. You should expect to spend 2-3 hours of study for every 1 hour of class time and 1 hour of study for every 3-hour lab period. You will have frequent graded events and you must keep up with the coursework to succeed in this class! In class/lab we will typically discuss your questions on the study assignment and homework problems, conduct biochemistry experiments, and you will work classroom problems at the board.

Academic Integrity

GGC students are expected to demonstrate integrity and honesty in their courses and to complete work according to their instructors’ specifications. Students are responsible for avoiding every aspect or appearance of academic dishonesty. While it is impossible to list all acts of academic dishonesty, examples are listed below. Additional details on academic integrity are found in the GGC Academic Policy Manual, Academic Integrity Policy for Academic Dishonesty Matters (Policy 4.1.1.1.2). 

 Academic Dishonesty.  Examples of specific prohibited actions include but are not limited to the following: 

Academic Misconduct: Performing, attempting to perform, or assisting another in performing any act of academic dishonesty. 

Cheating: This act of dishonesty includes, but is not limited to, giving information to or taking information from other students during examinations. Cheating is also committed when students copy from unauthorized sources and/or represent some other person’s work as their own. Collaboration on out-of-class assignments or examinations is considered cheating if prohibited by the professor. The use of Artificial Intelligence (“AI”), on any assignment submitted for credit is prohibited unless specifically permitted by the course instructor. 

Plagiarism: This category includes copying material from unpublished or published sources, including electronic resources, and submitting that material as the student’s own work. Students are responsible for identifying the proper source and for giving credit to that source anytime that they present ideas which are not their own. 

Unauthorized Use or Possession of Materials or Resources: Students must not use or possess unauthorized materials or resources in an academic activity. 

Collusion: This act of dishonesty includes, but is not limited to, buying or selling material that can be misrepresented as a student’s own work. In addition, students who fail to report known acts of academic dishonesty on the part of others may be held responsible for collusion. 

Previously submitted material: Students may not submit work that has been or is being concurrently submitted, in whole or in part, in another class without first having received permission to do so from all the professors involved. 

Misrepresentation or falsification of material: This act includes, but is not limited to, misrepresenting, fabricating, or altering academic material. In addition, students must not take an examination or test in the name of another student or present another student’s work as their own. 

Misrepresentation of circumstances: Students must not misrepresent personal circumstances (e.g., illness, conflicting responsibilities, etc.) to avoid meeting academic responsibilities or to gain an academic advantage. 

 To avoid plagiarism, students must appropriately cite the sources of others’ ideas, thoughts, and words that appear in their original work. In addition to requesting assistance from the Academic Enhancement Center, their instructors, or trusted peers, students may use a variety of technologies to improve their writing. These tools, which may include proofreading and editing features of word processing software, do not alter students’ work to an extent that fundamentally affects their claim to authorship.  

Instructors may use the Originality Check feature of Turnitin to see how similar student work is to online sources and to assist students in learning how to cite sources appropriately to avoid potential plagiarism. Instructors may also use applications to detect writing generated by artificial intelligence (AI). Some writing tools use AI to suggest edits, while other AI technologies, such as ChatGPT, are meant to simulate human conversation and produce writing that appears to be authored by a person. Although AI can be used for educational purposes and to develop or improve one’s writing, submitting work containing AI-generated text, unless the instructor requests or explicitly allows it as part of an assignment, is prohibited.  

 All violations of the Academic Integrity Policy shall be resolved via the Faculty Adjudication Process and/or the Formal Resolution (Student Conduct Board hearing through the Dean of Students Office) as outlined in the Academic Integrity Policy for Academic Dishonesty Matters (Policy 4.1.1.1.2).

Artificial Intelligence

All students should be familiar with the college's policy on Acceptable Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Academic and Administrative Purposes and the Academic Integrity Policy for Academic Dishonesty Matters.

For this course, my expectation regarding the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is as follows: on a case by case basis. Generally, AI should not be used for graded material.

Option 1: AI Use Prohibited

Suggested Syllabus Statement: “The use of artificial-intelligence (AI) tools – including but not limited to text, image, video, or code generators, research assistants, or problem-solving systems – is strictly prohibited for every assignment, quiz, exam, discussion, or draft in this course. All submitted work must be wholly your own, produced without AI assistance. Submitting AI-generated or AI-assisted work constitutes academic misconduct under the college's Policy on Academic Integrity. If you are unsure whether an action constitutes AI use, ask me before proceeding.”

Option 2: AI Use Permitted Only in Certain Cases

Suggested Syllabus Statement: “The use of artificial-intelligence (AI) tools – including but not limited to text, image, video, or code generators, research assistants, or problem-solving systems – is prohibited unless the instructions for a particular assignment, activity, or assessment state otherwise. Unauthorized use of AI may constitute academic misconduct under the college's Policy on Academic Integrity. If you are unsure whether an action constitutes AI use, ask me before proceeding.”

Option 3: AI Use Permitted Unless Stated Otherwise

Suggested Syllabus Statement: “The use of artificial-intelligence (AI) tools – including but not limited to text, image, video, or code generators, research assistants, or problem-solving systems – is permitted unless the instructions for an assignment, activity, or assessment explicitly state otherwise. Unauthorized use of AI may constitute academic misconduct under the college's Policy on Academic Integrity. If you are unsure whether an action constitutes AI use, ask me before proceeding.”

Attendance Policy and Absences

Attendance is a strong indicator of success in this class! Please plan to attend all class sessions and be on time. If you must be absent, please review the college’s attendance policy. 

It is a best practice to inform me when you must be absent (see my preferred communication method) and discuss the option(s), if any, to make up missed assignments, tests, exams, etc. You do not have to share why you are absent with me directly. If you wish to provide documentation needed for the absence to be considered excused, you may submit this to the Dean of Students, and they will work with you and me.

Complaints and Grade Appeals

If you have course-related issues, please schedule an appointment to meet with me. (See the Faculty Information above for contact details). If we are unable to resolve the issue you may contact the department chair. You may seek further assistance, if needed, through the Dean’s office. The college also offers you the option to file a written student complaint. 

Final grade appeals may also be filed if you believe there is an error. 

The student complaint process and the grade appeal process are both outlined in the Student Handbook. 

Learning Resources

The college offers services and resources designed to help you succeed. 

Academic Enhancement Center (AEC)

The AEC provides in-person tutoring, online tutoring via Tutor.com, and structured study sessions known as Peer Supplemental Instruction (PSI), as well as academic coaches who can advise you on study, test-taking, and time management skills. 

Kaufman Library

The Kaufman Library is home to full-text articles, e-books, reports, statistics, and videos. The librarians and library staff are available to assist you with locating resources, research needs, course assignments, and more. 

Disability Services

Disability Services provides reasonable accommodations to ensure accessible educational and social environments. If you believe you require an accommodation, initiate a request for services. 

Information Technology

You may contact the Help Desk if you experience issues with using the technology needed for this course. Software, including Microsoft Office 365 and Adobe Express, is available for your use in computer labs and classrooms. If you need access to a laptop, the college offers a limited quantity, need-based laptop loaner program.

Access and Accommodations
Access and Accommodations

It is important that all students have equal access to the classroom and their education. If you have already established accommodations with Disability Services, please provide me with your Faculty Accommodation Notification, with your approved accommodations listed at your earliest convenience.

If you have not yet established services through Disability Services (located in D-1404), but have a permanent disability (such as, but not limited to: mental health, attention-related, learning, vision, hearing, physical, or health impacts), or a temporary condition that requires accommodations, you are encouraged to contact Disability Services at 678-407-5195 or disabilityservices@ggc.edu.

Disability Services offers resources and coordinates reasonable accommodations for students with disabilities and/or temporary health conditions. Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to creating an inclusive and accessible learning environment consistent with federal and state law.

Pregnancy and Pregnancy-Related Conditions Accommodations Under Title IX

GGC is committed to compliance with Title IX and to supporting the academic success of pregnant students and students with pregnancy-related conditions (pregnancy, childbirth, loss of pregnancy, lactation, and all related medical conditions or recovery).

Students experiencing pregnancy or pregnancy-related conditions may request reasonable accommodations, including but not limited to excused absences, making up missed assignments, restroom breaks, a larger desk, lactation breaks, access to lactation spaces, etc. To request pregnancy-related accommodations, students should contact the Office of Disability Services (email: disabilityservices@ggc.edu; phone: 678-407-5883) or the Office of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance (email: TitleIX@ggc.edu; phone: 678-407-5085).

Students who believe they have been subject to discrimination or harassment because of their pregnancy status or pregnancy-related condition(s) may file a complaint with the Office of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance.

Well-being and Safety

The college offers many resources and services to support your physical and emotional well-being in a safe environment. 

Student Emergency Assistance Programs

Our emergency assistance programs include:

Care Pantry
Provides food and necessities to students experiencing financial constraints. 

Grizzly Thrift
Provides access to free clothing for students. 

Health and Wellness Programs

Health Services offers a variety of services to help you stay well. 

Medical Services
Provides care for minor injuries and illnesses, diagnostic testing, immunizations, and basic over-the-counter medications. 

Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)
Provides mental health services. 

Wellness and Recreation
Provides workout facilities, fitness classes, and intramural sports. 

Disability Services

Disability Services provides reasonable accommodations to ensure accessible educational and social environments. If you require an accommodation, initiate a request for services. 

Safety and Security

Public Safety offers many services to help you stay safe on campus, including safety escorts. 

You’ll want to stay informed about campus closures and other safety-related notifications via Rave Alert. 

Grizzly Care Team

The Grizzly Care Team brings together professionals from across the college to help you or other members of the college community who may pose a threat to the safety of the college community or an individual. If you see someone experiencing challenges, appearing distressed, posing a threat to their safety or someone else’s safety, or causing a significant disruption to the GGC community, please submit a Grizzly Care Team referral. 

Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Statement
Notice of Non-Discrimination

Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to providing a learning, working, and living environment that promotes personal integrity, civility, and mutual respect and is free of all forms of discrimination and harassment. In accordance with applicable law and Georgia Gwinnett College’s Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy, Georgia Gwinnett College prohibits discrimination on the basis of an individual’s race, color, sex (including sexual harassment, marital, parental, and pregnancy status), sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, ethnicity or national origin, religion, age, genetic information, disability, creed, or veteran status (“protected status”), or any other protected status or characteristic as defined by law, in its programs and activities. No individual shall be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to unlawful discrimination, harassment, or retaliation under any GGC program or activity because of the individual’s protected status.

Georgia Gwinnett College is an equal employment, equal access, and equal educational opportunity institution. It is the policy and practice of our institution to recruit, hire, train, promote, retain, and educate persons without regard to their protected status, as required by applicable state and federal laws (including Title VI, Title VII, Title IX, ADA, Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and Executive Order 11246).

Any individual who feels that they may have been discriminated against should contact the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance office at titleix@ggc.edu or 678-407-5085.

Students requiring disability related accommodations, please contact Disability Services.

The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies:

Sharon Stellato, J.D., Interim Title IX Coordinator

Building B, Suite 3700

678.407.5085

TitleIX@ggc.edu

For more general information, please visit the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Office’s website.

Sexual Misconduct Statement

Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs or activities operated by recipients of Federal financial assistance. Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to creating a safe learning environment for all members of our community, free from gender and sex-based discrimination, including sexual harassment, domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, in accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. If you or someone you know is experiencing any of these behaviors, the College has staff and resources on campus to support and assist you. For a list of resources, please visit Sexual Misconduct Resources.

Please note that the Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Policy 4.1.7 designates all faculty members, including teaching assistants, as “Responsible Employees.” Under GGC’s Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Policy, all “Responsible Employees” must report all disclosures of sex or gender-based discrimination or violence to GGC’s Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX Coordinator will reach out to provide resources, support, and information after receiving a report, but community members are not required to respond to such outreach. Reported information will remain private.

If you have (or someone you know has) experienced any form of sex or gender-based discrimination or violence and wish to speak with someone confidentially, please contact GGC’s Title IX Coordinator at TitleIX@ggc.edu or 678-407-5085. For more information regarding GGC’s Title IX procedures, reporting, or support measures, please visit the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance office’s website. 

Support·Community·Privacy Policy·v2026.03.18.15.02·© 2026 Simple Higher Ed
Syllabus management system