2026 Summer BIOL 1102 Section 03 (50344)
Last updated Mar 12, 2026
Print
Course Description and Prerequisites
Core IMPACTS
Course Outcomes
School Information
Faculty Information
Class Details
Final Exam Details
Required Course Materials
Course Grading
Important Dates
Course Outline/Assessments
Course Changes
Expectations
Academic Integrity
Artificial Intelligence
Attendance Policy and Absences
Complaints and Grade Appeals
Learning Resources
Access and Accommodations
Well-being and Safety
Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Statement
Sexual Misconduct Statement
keyboard_arrow_down
searchQuick Search
Syllabus Library
Logout
School of Science and Technology
BIOL 1102 Section 03 (50344)
Biological Sciences II
2026 Summer
Course Description and Prerequisites

Prerequisites: HSGPA >= 3.2 or ACT MATH >= 17 or SAT MATH >= 400 or ACCM >=67 or COMM >= 37 or MATH 1001* or MATH 1111* AND HSGPA >= 3.1 or ACT English >= 17 or SAT Cr Reading >= 430 or COMR >= 74 and SEGX >=8 or ACCR >=61 and ACCW >= 4 or ENGL 1101, or ENGL 1101* or ENGL 1101^ or ENGL 1101H concurrently. Part of the two-semester sequence of basic biology for non-science majors. Upon completion of this course, students will: (1) describe the organization of life from the organism to the biosphere; (2) demonstrate critical thinking skills and the scientific process; (3) effectively collect and analyze data and draw conclusions; (4) apply scientific concepts to global issues and perspectives, and distinguish between well-documented scientific studies and popular opinion; (5) communicate scientific topics effectively in oral and written form.

Core IMPACTS

This course is part of Core IMPACTS.

Core IMPACTS consists of seven core curriculum domains (previously identified as areas A-E). Each Core IMPACTS domain is designed around a specific orienting question (goal or topic), learning outcomes, and career-ready competencies.

IMPACTS Domain: Technology, Mathematics and Science
IMPACTS Statement: This is a Core IMPACTS course that is part of the Technology, Mathematics and Science domain.
Orienting Question(s): How do I ask scientific questions or use data, mathematics, or technology to understand the universe?
Learning Outcome(s): Students will use the scientific method and laboratory procedures or mathematical and computational methods to analyze data, solve problems, and explain natural phenomena.
Career-Ready Competencies: Inquiry and Analysis, Problem-Solving, & Teamwork





Course Outcomes

Students who have successfully completed the course will: 

 Describe the organization of life from the organism to the biosphere.
 Demonstrate critical thinking skills and the scientific process.
 Effectively collect and analyze data and draw conclusions.
 Apply scientific concepts to global issues and perspectives, and distinguish between well-documented scientific studies and popular opinion.
 Communicate scientific topics effectively in oral and written form.

The IEE Goals met by the objectives of this course are: 

IEE-1: Clearly communicate ideas in written and oral form. 

IEE-2: Demonstrate creativity and critical thinking in inter- and multi-disciplinary contexts. 

IEE-3: Demonstrate effective use of information technology. 

IEE-8: Demonstrate competence in quantitative reasoning.

School Information
Vision Statement

The School of Science and Technology (SST) will become recognized in the region and the state for excellence in STEM education at an open access institution. SST faculty will provide effective and relevant courses and programs in science, math, and technology which are characterized by interdisciplinary learning, novel use of educational technology, and an active learning environment that stimulates critical thinking.

Mission Statement

The School of Science and Technology is committed to providing an innovative outcomes-based learning experience for all students of Georgia Gwinnett College. It provides programs of study in biology, math, exercise science, and information technology that offer its students disciplinary and interdisciplinary courses, as well as practical and applied learning experiences that prepare them for post-graduate schooling or for positions of responsibility in education, business, medicine or government. The SST also provides general education experiences that produce graduates who demonstrate math, science, and information technology literacy, and that foster an understanding of the role of these disciplines in our society and in an uncertain and changing world. The School’s faculty maintain competency in their discipline and are knowledgeable of methods of providing innovative active-learning environments.

School of Science and Technology Policies
Class Attendance and Financial Aid

Please be aware that faculty check attendance in each of your courses and are required to report to the Registrar students who never attend or cease attending a course. Students who are reported as never attended or have ceased attending a course, Financial Aid will be notified and is required to adjust your financial aid award accordingly. If you have any questions about how not attending a course for which you are registered will affect your financial aid eligibility, please contact the Financial Aid Office.

If you feel that you are unable to complete your courses due to illness or family emergency, contact the Registrar’s Office to attempt to withdraw from your courses without penalty.

Health & Safety Policy

Certain laboratories include use of strong acids, solvents, and preservatives. Any pregnant women, hypersensitive individuals, or immunocompromised people should report their condition to the instructor and to their physician, preferably before contact with the materials (see lab exercises). Additional instructions for lab will be presented during the first lab. Students are required to follow all instructions. Students failing to conform to lab rules and safety precautions will be first warned by removal from the lab. On second offense, students will be removed from both lecture and lab

Social Media

Follow the School of Science and Technology on Facebook. You will hear about important events and information including Career Services events, scholarships, studies abroad opportunities, summer research opportunities, and employment opportunities.

Faculty Information
Name: Dr. Fengjie Sun
Email: fsun@ggc.edu
Office: Building I-3133
Phone: (470) 563-9621
Office Hours: Available by request or appointment.
Department: Department of Biological Sciences
Curriculum Vitae:
Curriculum Vitae
Class Details

Course Details
BIOL 1102 Section 03 (50344)
Course Title: Biological Sciences II
Credit Hours: 3
Semester Start Date: 05/26/2026 Semester End Date: 07/23/2026
Course Start Date: 05/26/2026 Course End Date: 06/23/2026
Class Meeting Day(s): MTWR
Class Times: 1100 - 1345  
Modality: In Person
Meeting Location: C-2115










Final Exam Details

The final exam will be given during the week of June 22-23 (Session A). The date and time of the final exam is set by the registrar and will be posted at the midpoint of the semester. The exam schedule cannot be changed at the convenience of the student. You should not plan to be absent during that week. A make-up final exam will only be given in cases of a verifiable excused absence. 

Required Course Materials
Campbell Essential Biology With Physiology
ISBN: 9780134819426
Authors: EJ Simon, JL Dickey, and JB Reece
Publisher: Pearson
Edition: 6th
Course Grading

Grading Scale:

A (Excellent) 90-100
B (Good) 80-89
C (Fair) 70-79
D (Poor) 60-69
F (Failure) 59 and below

Grading Percentages or Points:

Grading Category

	

Percent Weight




4 exams (each of 100 points)

	

40%




Comprehensive final exam (100 points)

	

10%




3 homework assignments (each of points)

	

30%




Oral presentation (100 points)

	

10%




Class Participation (100 points)

	

10%




Total

	

100%

Grading Percentages and Points

Late Work Policy:

Assignments submitted after the due date and time will be docked as follows: turned in one day late, –50%; turned in five days late, student receives a zero. If the student has a written excuse, it is the student’s responsibility to inform the instructor and provide written proof of excuse within 2 days of the assignment’s due date.

Assessment Tools:

Homework: You will have 3 group homework assignments assigned throughout the semester. They will each be worth 100 points and will be assigned with a deadline. Format will vary. Late assignments will be docked as follows: turned in one day late, –50%; turned in five days late, student receives a zero.

Attendance (Participation/Discussion): Throughout the course of the semester, we will have in class discussions and writings based on the course readings. To receive credit for these events, you must be present in class on the day of the discussion. Your participation will be evaluated based on, but not limited to, attendance, active participation, questioning, helping classmates, etc. Participation grade will total 100 points.

Oral Presentation: Topics. Each group of 3-4 students will choose a specific topic covered by the class materials after discussion with me, e.g., topics covered by homework assignments #2 or #3. You are NOT encouraged to do a group project by 5 or more students because this will greatly dilute your efforts and your grade for this course. You have a deadline to let me know your topic (to avoid repetition) so that I can provide you suggestions and schedule the presentation. The presentation must be given in the Power Point format and will be evaluated by your classmates and myself. There is no time limit (but be reasonable) on your presentation as long as it covers your topic sufficiently and effectively. Presentation will be worth 100 points. Please use the given rubric containing detailed information to help you prepare for the presentation. We have a few sessions devoted to the preparations for the class projects and you can always talk to your classmates and me if you have any questions about your project or your presentation. The Speaking Center at GGC provides help with presentations and public speaking, and it is located in Building C-G360. Your Power Point presentation should contain a bibliography using a number of (e.g., 3-5) references cited correctly and derived from different sources, e.g., your textbook, Scientific American, URLs (excluding “.com”), or Wikipedia (note: Wikipedia is never an accepted reference in biological research). Plagiarism. GGC does have an honor code stating that “Copying sentences or phrases from a website or other source constitutes plagiarism.” Common problems: copying and pasting words from websites. Therefore, you must rephrase concepts using your own words even if they do not sound as elegant as those from which you collect your information. Penalty for plagiarism is a zero on the presentation. Due Dates. Presentation in Power Point will be due on D2L (Brightspace) the day before your scheduled presentation. You may choose to use an updated version of your powerpoint slides for your in-class presentation, and this updated version of your slides should be turned in on D2L when it is presented. Basic grading criteria include: Thesis, Support, Organization (criteria, analysis, persuasion, and summary), and Mechanics/Grammar/Format. Weights and some of these basic criteria will vary with different assignments.

Exams: There will be four exams given during the regular semester, and each will be worth 100 points. Each exam will cover all material leading up to that exam minus material from the previous test. A MANDATORY semi-CUMULATIVE FINAL exam will be administered during final exam week and will be worth 100 points. You cannot drop the final. Failure to take an exam results in a grade of zero. A make-up final exam will only be given in cases of a verifiable excused absence. Students with a legitimate excuse (determined by the instructor) for missing an exam will have their Final Exam grade counted for both the Final Exam grade and the missed exam grade.

Attendance: You are expected to attend every class and lab. Your active participation will be credited. Failure to attend class or lab will affect your grade. Students are responsible for any materials or assignments missed on their day of absence.

Collaboration Policy: Appropriate collaborations are always encouraged under certain conditions. More guidelines will be available for each assignment.

Important Dates




Activity	Date
Tuition due Tuition and Fees Deadlines 	May 21
Classes begin (Full Session and Session A) 	May 26
Drop/add ends (Session A) 	May 27
Drop/add ends (Full Session) 	May 28
Mid-term grades due (Session A) 	June 4 
Last day to withdraw with "W" (Session A) 	June 10
Classes end (Session A) 	June 18
Juneteenth 	June 19
Mid-term grades due (Full Session) 	June 22
Final exams (Session A) Final exam schedules (login required) 	June 22-23
Classes begin (Session B) 	June 24
Drop/add ends (Session B) 	June 25 
Last day to withdraw with "W" (Full Session) 	June 25
Grades due (Session A) 	June 26, 9 a.m.
Independence Day (observed) 	July 3
Mid-term grades due (Session B) 	July 7
Last day to withdraw with "W" (Session B) 	July 9 
Classes end (Full Session) 	July 16
Classes end (Session B) 	July 20
Final exams (Full Session) 	July 20-23
Final exams (Session B) Final exam schedules (login required) 	July 21-23
Grades due (Full Session and Session B) 	July 27, Noon
Grades available in Grizzly Den within Banner 	July 28
Important Dates from the GGC Academic Calendar
Course Outline/Assessments

Please see "Course Schedule" under the "Content" tab on D2L.

Course Changes

This course syllabus provides a general plan for this course. The Faculty reserves the right to make changes to the syllabus, including changes to assignments, projects, examinations, etc., in order to accommodate the needs of the class as a whole and fulfill the goals of the course. 

Expectations

All students at GGC need to have access to a computer. If you do not have one, you may request to borrow one for the semester from the GGC Helpdesk by contacting your instructor. There is a limited availability of GGC loaner laptops, so request one early in the semester.

Students can access the course materials and grades via D2L.

Students should check GGC email regularly (at least twice a day).

All completed assignments will be submitted through D2L. Unless otherwise specified, daily assignments must be submitted prior to class time. Major projects are due by 11:59 pm EST on the due date unless other arrangements are made in advance with the instructor.

If you have any questions or concerns about this course, you need to communicate with the instructor. If an aspect of the course is confusing or unhelpful, please give feedback so that it can be improved.

Keys to Success in This Course:

Good education is a shared responsibility. In order to help you succeed in this course and do your best I will:

ensure that the syllabus and tentative class schedule is uploaded into D2L by first day of semester
give guidance on what is expected of you to succeed on quizzes, exams, and assignments
put grades in D2L on a timely basis, typically within two weeks
be on time for class; design class time to help you succeed
give you my email and GGC cell phone number and respond to your email and phone calls in a timely manner according to technology covenant
meet with you outside of class if you need additional help.

 

In order for you to succeed in this course and do your best you should commit yourself to:

attend every class and lab on time
prepare for each class by reviewing the class schedule and being equipped as required
read the assigned chapters before coming to class; note anything that needs clarification
take notes in class; again, immediately make note of anything that needs clarification
ask questions on materials you do not understand as they come to mind
review your notes often, not once the night before the exam; studying often for short periods is much more effective than cramming the night before; re-drawing key illustrations can be helpful
rewrite your notes into an organized outline; keep all class materials in one binder
form study groups; talking out loud and helping others understand a section of material you understand well is a great way to learn; find people that you can work well with
communicate with me often, I am happy to help; don't wait until it is too late; there is nothing I can do to change a poor grade, but I will be glad to help before the test to make sure your knowledge is solid beforehand; do not ask for special individual favors that will help boost your grade.
Academic Integrity

Student Honor Statement: We will not lie, steal, or cheat, nor tolerate the actions of those who do. 

Georgia Gwinnett College students are expected to adhere to the highest standards of academic integrity and are expected to encourage others to do the same. Further, students are expected to take responsible action when there is reason to suspect dishonesty on the part of others. 

Academic dishonesty carries severe penalties ranging from a grade of “0” on the affected assignment to dismissal from Georgia Gwinnett College. 

Examples of specific prohibited actions include but are not limited to the following: 

Academic Misconduct: Performing, attempting to perform, or assisting another in performing any act of academic dishonesty. 

Cheating: This act of dishonesty includes, but is not limited to, giving information to or taking information from other students during examinations. Cheating is also committed when students copy from unauthorized sources and/or represent some other person’s work as their own. Collaboration on out-of-class assignments or examinations is considered cheating if prohibited by the professor. The use of Artificial Intelligence (“AI”), on any assignment submitted for credit is prohibited unless specifically permitted by the course instructor.

Plagiarism: This category includes copying material from unpublished or published sources, including electronic resources, and submitting that material as the student’s own work. Students are responsible for identifying the proper source and for giving credit to that source anytime that they present ideas which are not their own. 

Unauthorized Use or Possession of Materials or Resources: Students must not use or possess unauthorized materials or resources in an academic activity. 

Collusion: This act of dishonesty includes, but is not limited to, buying or selling material that can be misrepresented as a student’s own work. In addition, students who fail to report known acts of academic dishonesty on the part of others may be held responsible for collusion. 

Previously submitted material: Students may not submit work that has been or is being concurrently submitted, in whole or in part, in another class without first having received permission to do so from all the professors involved. 

Misrepresentation or falsification of material: This act includes, but is not limited to, misrepresenting, fabricating, or altering academic material. In addition, students must not take an examination or test in the name of another student or present another student’s work as their own. 

Misrepresentation of circumstances: Students must not misrepresent personal circumstances (e.g., illness, conflicting responsibilities, etc.) to avoid meeting academic responsibilities or to gain an academic advantage. 

All violations of the Academic Integrity Policy shall be resolved via the Faculty Adjudication Process and/or the Formal Resolution (Student Conduct Board hearing through the Dean of Students Office) as outlined in the Academic Integrity Policy for Academic Dishonesty Matters (Policy 4.1.1.1.2). Students may appeal a penalty as outlined in the Student Handbook Section 4.6.5, Student Code of Conduct. 

 

Artificial Intelligence

All students should be familiar with the college's policy on Acceptable Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Academic and Administrative Purposes and the Academic Integrity Policy for Academic Dishonesty Matters.

For this course, my expectation regarding the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is as follows:




Attendance Policy and Absences

Attendance is a strong indicator of success in this class! Please plan to attend all class sessions and be on time. If you must be absent, please review the college’s attendance policy. 

It is a best practice to inform me when you must be absent (see my preferred communication method) and discuss the option(s), if any, to make up missed assignments, tests, exams, etc. You do not have to share why you are absent with me directly. If you wish to provide documentation needed for the absence to be considered excused, you may submit this to the Dean of Students, and they will work with you and me.

Complaints and Grade Appeals

If you have course-related issues, please schedule an appointment to meet with me. (See the Faculty Information above for contact details). If we are unable to resolve the issue you may contact the department chair. You may seek further assistance, if needed, through the Dean’s office. The college also offers you the option to file a written student complaint. 

Final grade appeals may also be filed if you believe there is an error. 

The student complaint process and the grade appeal process are both outlined in the Student Handbook. 

Learning Resources

The college offers services and resources designed to help you succeed. 

Academic Enhancement Center (AEC)

The AEC provides in-person tutoring, online tutoring via Tutor.com, and structured study sessions known as Peer Supplemental Instruction (PSI), as well as academic coaches who can advise you on study, test-taking, and time management skills. 

Kaufman Library

The Kaufman Library is home to full-text articles, e-books, reports, statistics, and videos. The librarians and library staff are available to assist you with locating resources, research needs, course assignments, and more. 

Disability Services

Disability Services provides reasonable accommodations to ensure accessible educational and social environments. If you believe you require an accommodation, initiate a request for services. 

Information Technology

You may contact the Help Desk if you experience issues with using the technology needed for this course. Software, including Microsoft Office 365 and Adobe Express, is available for your use in computer labs and classrooms. If you need access to a laptop, the college offers a limited quantity, need-based laptop loaner program.

Access and Accommodations
Access and Accommodations

It is important that all students have equal access to the classroom and their education. If you have already established accommodations with Disability Services, please provide me with your Faculty Accommodation Notification, with your approved accommodations listed at your earliest convenience.

If you have not yet established services through Disability Services (located in D-1404), but have a permanent disability (such as, but not limited to: mental health, attention-related, learning, vision, hearing, physical, or health impacts), or a temporary condition that requires accommodations, you are encouraged to contact Disability Services at 678-407-5195 or disabilityservices@ggc.edu.

Disability Services offers resources and coordinates reasonable accommodations for students with disabilities and/or temporary health conditions. Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to creating an inclusive and accessible learning environment consistent with federal and state law.

Pregnancy and Pregnancy-Related Conditions Accommodations Under Title IX

GGC is committed to compliance with Title IX and to supporting the academic success of pregnant students and students with pregnancy-related conditions (pregnancy, childbirth, loss of pregnancy, lactation, and all related medical conditions or recovery).

Students experiencing pregnancy or pregnancy-related conditions may request reasonable accommodations, including but not limited to excused absences, making up missed assignments, restroom breaks, a larger desk, lactation breaks, access to lactation spaces, etc. To request pregnancy-related accommodations, students should contact the Office of Disability Services (email: disabilityservices@ggc.edu; phone: 678-407-5883) or the Office of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance (email: TitleIX@ggc.edu; phone: 678-407-5085).

Students who believe they have been subject to discrimination or harassment because of their pregnancy status or pregnancy-related condition(s) may file a complaint with the Office of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance.

Well-being and Safety

The college offers many resources and services to support your physical and emotional well-being in a safe environment. 

Student Emergency Assistance Programs

Our emergency assistance programs include:

Care Pantry
Provides food and necessities to students experiencing financial constraints. 

Grizzly Thrift
Provides access to free clothing for students. 

Health and Wellness Programs

Health Services offers a variety of services to help you stay well. 

Medical Services
Provides care for minor injuries and illnesses, diagnostic testing, immunizations, and basic over-the-counter medications. 

Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)
Provides mental health services. 

Wellness and Recreation
Provides workout facilities, fitness classes, and intramural sports. 

Disability Services

Disability Services provides reasonable accommodations to ensure accessible educational and social environments. If you require an accommodation, initiate a request for services. 

Safety and Security

Public Safety offers many services to help you stay safe on campus, including safety escorts. 

You’ll want to stay informed about campus closures and other safety-related notifications via Rave Alert. 

Grizzly Care Team

The Grizzly Care Team brings together professionals from across the college to help you or other members of the college community who may pose a threat to the safety of the college community or an individual. If you see someone experiencing challenges, appearing distressed, posing a threat to their safety or someone else’s safety, or causing a significant disruption to the GGC community, please submit a Grizzly Care Team referral. 

Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Statement
Notice of Non-Discrimination

Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to providing a learning, working, and living environment that promotes personal integrity, civility, and mutual respect and is free of all forms of discrimination and harassment. In accordance with applicable law and Georgia Gwinnett College’s Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy, Georgia Gwinnett College prohibits discrimination on the basis of an individual’s race, color, sex (including sexual harassment, marital, parental, and pregnancy status), sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, ethnicity or national origin, religion, age, genetic information, disability, creed, or veteran status (“protected status”), or any other protected status or characteristic as defined by law, in its programs and activities. No individual shall be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to unlawful discrimination, harassment, or retaliation under any GGC program or activity because of the individual’s protected status.

Georgia Gwinnett College is an equal employment, equal access, and equal educational opportunity institution. It is the policy and practice of our institution to recruit, hire, train, promote, retain, and educate persons without regard to their protected status, as required by applicable state and federal laws (including Title VI, Title VII, Title IX, ADA, Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and Executive Order 11246).

Any individual who feels that they may have been discriminated against should contact the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance office at titleix@ggc.edu or 678-407-5085.

Students requiring disability related accommodations, please contact Disability Services.

The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies:

Sharon Stellato, J.D., Interim Title IX Coordinator

Building B, Suite 3700

678.407.5085

TitleIX@ggc.edu

For more general information, please visit the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Office’s website.

Sexual Misconduct Statement

Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs or activities operated by recipients of Federal financial assistance. Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to creating a safe learning environment for all members of our community, free from gender and sex-based discrimination, including sexual harassment, domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, in accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. If you or someone you know is experiencing any of these behaviors, the College has staff and resources on campus to support and assist you. For a list of resources, please visit Sexual Misconduct Resources.

Please note that the Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Policy 4.1.7 designates all faculty members, including teaching assistants, as “Responsible Employees.” Under GGC’s Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Policy, all “Responsible Employees” must report all disclosures of sex or gender-based discrimination or violence to GGC’s Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX Coordinator will reach out to provide resources, support, and information after receiving a report, but community members are not required to respond to such outreach. Reported information will remain private.

If you have (or someone you know has) experienced any form of sex or gender-based discrimination or violence and wish to speak with someone confidentially, please contact GGC’s Title IX Coordinator at TitleIX@ggc.edu or 678-407-5085. For more information regarding GGC’s Title IX procedures, reporting, or support measures, please visit the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance office’s website. 

Support·Community·Privacy Policy·v2026.03.18.15.02·© 2026 Simple Higher Ed
Syllabus management system