2026 Fall BIOL 1101K Section 26 (82036)
Last updated Mar 12, 2026
Print
Course Description and Prerequisites
Core IMPACTS
Course Outcomes
School Information
Faculty Information
Class Details
Final Exam Details
Online/Proctored Tests
Web Conferencing
Required Course Materials
Recommended Course Materials
Resources Needed
Service Learning
Course Grading
K Course Grading Policy
Important Dates
Course Outline/Assessments
Course Changes
Expectations
Academic Integrity
Artificial Intelligence
Attendance Policy and Absences
Complaints and Grade Appeals
Learning Resources
Access and Accommodations
Well-being and Safety
Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Statement
Sexual Misconduct Statement
keyboard_arrow_down
searchQuick Search
Syllabus Library
Logout
School of Science and Technology
BIOL 1101K Section 26 (82036)
Biological Sciences I wLab
2026 Fall
Course Description and Prerequisites

Prerequisites: HSGPA >= 3.2 or ACT MATH >=17 or SAT MATH >=400 or ACCM >=67 or ACCNGM >=258 or MATH 1001* or MATH 1111* with a C or higher AND ACT ENGL >=17 or SAT CR READ >=430 or (ACCR >= 61 and ACCW >=4) or (ACCNGR >=237 and ACCW >=4) or ENGL 1101 C or concurrently Part of the two-semester study of basic biology for non-science majors including one semester of laboratory experience. Upon completion of this course, students will (1) describe the organization of life from the cellular level to the organism; (2) demonstrate critical thinking skills and the scientific process; (3) effectively collect and analyze data and draw conclusions; (4) apply scientific concepts to global issues and perspectives, and distinguish between well-documented scientific studies and popular opinion; (5) communicate scientific topics effectively in oral and written form.

Core IMPACTS

This course is part of Core IMPACTS.

Core IMPACTS consists of seven core curriculum domains (previously identified as areas A-E). Each Core IMPACTS domain is designed around a specific orienting question (goal or topic), learning outcomes, and career-ready competencies.

IMPACTS Domain: Technology, Mathematics and Science
IMPACTS Statement: This is a Core IMPACTS course that is part of the Technology, Mathematics and Science domain.
Orienting Question(s): How do I ask scientific questions or use data, mathematics, or technology to understand the universe?
Learning Outcome(s): Students will use the scientific method and laboratory procedures or mathematical and computational methods to analyze data, solve problems, and explain natural phenomena.
Career-Ready Competencies: Inquiry and Analysis, Problem-Solving, & Teamwork





Course Outcomes

Upon completion of this course students will: 

Describe the organization of life from the cellular level to the organism.

Demonstrate critical thinking skills and the scientific process.
Effectively collect and analyze data and draw conclusions.
Apply scientific concepts to global issues and perspectives, and distinguish between well-documented scientific studies and popular opinion.
Communicate scientific topics effectively in oral and written form.

The IEE Goals met by the objectives of this course are: 

IEE-1: Clearly communicate ideas in written and oral form. 

IEE-8: Demonstrate competence in quantitative reasoning.

School Information
Vision Statement

The School of Science and Technology (SST) will become recognized in the region and the state for excellence in STEM education at an open access institution. SST faculty will provide effective and relevant courses and programs in science, math, and technology which are characterized by interdisciplinary learning, novel use of educational technology, and an active learning environment that stimulates critical thinking.

Mission Statement

The School of Science and Technology is committed to providing an innovative outcomes-based learning experience for all students of Georgia Gwinnett College. It provides programs of study in biology, math, exercise science, and information technology that offer its students disciplinary and interdisciplinary courses, as well as practical and applied learning experiences that prepare them for post-graduate schooling or for positions of responsibility in education, business, medicine or government. The SST also provides general education experiences that produce graduates who demonstrate math, science, and information technology literacy, and that foster an understanding of the role of these disciplines in our society and in an uncertain and changing world. The School’s faculty maintain competency in their discipline and are knowledgeable of methods of providing innovative active-learning environments.

School of Science and Technology Policies
Class Attendance and Financial Aid

Please be aware that faculty check attendance in each of your courses and are required to report to the Registrar students who never attend or cease attending a course. Students who are reported as never attended or have ceased attending a course, Financial Aid will be notified and is required to adjust your financial aid award accordingly. If you have any questions about how not attending a course for which you are registered will affect your financial aid eligibility, please contact the Financial Aid Office.

If you feel that you are unable to complete your courses due to illness or family emergency, contact the Registrar’s Office to attempt to withdraw from your courses without penalty.

Health & Safety Policy

Certain laboratories include use of strong acids, solvents, and preservatives. Any pregnant women, hypersensitive individuals, or immunocompromised people should report their condition to the instructor and to their physician, preferably before contact with the materials (see lab exercises). Additional instructions for lab will be presented during the first lab. Students are required to follow all instructions. Students failing to conform to lab rules and safety precautions will be first warned by removal from the lab. On second offense, students will be removed from both lecture and lab

Social Media

Follow the School of Science and Technology on Facebook. You will hear about important events and information including Career Services events, scholarships, studies abroad opportunities, summer research opportunities, and employment opportunities.

Faculty Information
Name: Clay Runck
Email: crunck@ggc.edu
Office: A 1093
Office Hours: Available by request or appointment.
Department: Biological Sciences
Curriculum Vitae:
Curriculum Vitae
Class Details

Course Details
BIOL 1101K Section 26 (82036)
Course Title: Biological Sciences I wLab
Credit Hours: 4
Semester Start Date: 08/10/2026 Semester End Date: 12/08/2026
Course Start Date: 08/10/2026 Course End Date: 11/30/2026
Class Meeting Day(s): MW
Class Times: 0800 - 0915  
Modality: In Person
Meeting Location: B-2750
Lab Meeting Day: W
Lab Location: H2-2238
Lab Times: 1000 - 1145







Final Exam Details

The final exam will be given during the week of December 2-8 (Full Session and Session B).  The date and time of the final exam is set by the registrar and will be posted at the midpoint of the semester.  The exam schedule cannot be changed at the convenience of the student.  You should not plan to be absent during that week.  A make-up final exam will only be given in cases of a verifiable excused absence. 

Online/Proctored Tests

There are no online proctored tests in this course section.

Web Conferencing

In the event of exceptional circumstances, such as public health or safety recommendations, or incapacitation of the instructor, then this course will use Microsoft Teams/Zoom for online “virtual classroom” video conferencing sessions and collaboration activities.  Some or all of the sessions may be recorded.  Recordings that do not include video of individual students may be made available, and will only be available to the course instructor and the students enrolled in this course.

Required Course Materials
None
Recommended Course Materials
None
Resources Needed

Pencil or pen to complete in-class worksheets, quizzes, and tests. Notebook or notepaper for taking notes unless a tablet or laptop is used. 

Service Learning

There is no service learning component for this course section.

Course Grading

Grading Scale

The letter grade earned for this course is determined by the points earned as a percentage of the total points possible as defined here: A = 90% and above, B = 80-89%, C = 70-79%, D = 60-69%, and F = 59% and below.

Grading Percentages or Points

Lecture points (75 points) are 75% of the course grade and are composed of:

worksheets/assignments, 40 points
quizzes and tests (including final exam), 15 points
attendance and participation, 20 points

 Lab points (25 points) are 25% of the course grade and is composed of:

worksheets/assignments, 10 points
attendance and participation, 15 points
K Course Grading Policy




Lecture

	

Lab

	

Final Grade in Class




F

	

A or B or C or D or F

	

F




A or B or C or D or F

	

F

	

F

Biology 1101 K Course Grading Policy

 

This K course is an integrated classroom and laboratory learning experience with a single final course grade determined from the proportional weight of the classroom and laboratory experience. The grade received in BIOL1101K includes 75% classroom and 25% laboratory. However, students must earn a D or higher in both class and laboratory to earn a single final course grade of D or higher. As an example, single final grade calculation, a student in BIOL1101K earns a 95% (A grade) in the classroom experience and a 55% (F grade) in the laboratory experience. Although the proportional percentage is [(0.75x95) + (0.25x55)] = 85%, the student’s single final grade will be an F for the course. If a student requires a single final course grade of D or higher to progress in a course sequence, meet pre-requisites, satisfy academic program requirements, etc., they must earn at least a D in both the classroom and the laboratory experience. In this case, if an F is earned in either portion and the student must repeat the course to satisfy course sequence or academic program requirements, the student must repeat both the classroom and laboratory experience. See the table above for clarification.

Important Dates




Activity	Date
Classes begin (Full Session) 	Aug. 10
Drop/add ends (Full Session) 	Aug. 16
Labor Day holiday 	Sept. 7 
Mid-term grades due (Full Session) 	Oct. 1
Last day to withdraw with "W" (Full Session) 	Oct. 13
Thanksgiving break 	Nov. 22-29
Classes end (Full Session) 	Nov. 30
Reading day (Full Session) 	Dec. 1 
Final exams (Full Session) Final exam schedules (login required) 	Dec. 2-8
Grades due (Full Session) 	Dec. 10, Noon
Grades available in Grizzly Den within Banner 	Dec. 14
Important Dates from the GGC Academic Calendar
Course Outline/Assessments

The day-to-day topic schedule will be provided on the course D2L site in the form of date-specific folders for both lecture and lab.

Course Changes

This course syllabus provides a general plan for this course.  The Faculty reserves the right to make changes to the syllabus, including changes to assignments, projects, examinations, etc., in order to accommodate the needs of the class as a whole and fulfill the goals of the course. 

Expectations

Come to class, complete worksheets, and participate in class activities.




Laboratory Safety, Dress Code, and Behavior

While in lab students must adhere to the dress code, laboratory safety, and behavior requirements. Two important rules to note that can be difficult to remember are:

Eating and drinking are not allowed in the laboratory, nor are any open drink and food containers (closed containers are allowed but contents cannot be consumed);
Feet and legs must be completely covered. You must wear long pants or a long skirt and shoes that completely cover your feet. Shorts and short skirts, open-toed and open-heeled shoes (sandals, house slippers, clogs, slip-ons), and shoes with holes (like Crocs) are not allowed. If you are dismissed from lab because of improper dress, it will count as an absence.

Personal protective equipment (PPE), in the form of safety goggles, lab coats, masks, and gloves, will be provided when needed for specific labs.

Academic Integrity

GGC students are expected to demonstrate integrity and honesty in their courses and to complete work according to their instructors’ specifications. Students are responsible for avoiding every aspect or appearance of academic dishonesty. While it is impossible to list all acts of academic dishonesty, examples are listed at the end of this section. Additional details on academic integrity are found in the GGC catalog.

Plagiarism is a common form of academic dishonesty that involves representing another’s work as one’s own. Students can plagiarize on purpose or by accident. To avoid plagiarism, students must appropriately cite the sources of others’ ideas, thoughts, and words that appear in their original work. In addition to requesting assistance from the Academic Enhancement Center, their instructors, or trusted peers, students may use a variety of technologies to improve their writing. These tools, which may include proofreading and editing features of word processing software, do not alter students’ work to an extent that fundamentally affects their claim to authorship. 

Some writing tools use artificial intelligence (AI) to suggest edits, while other AI technologies, such as ChatGPT, are meant to simulate human conversation and produce writing that appears to be authored by a person. See my statement on Artificial Intelligence Use below. 

If students submit writing that follows patterns typical of AI-produced text, or if the source of the work is unclear, then instructors may require students to explain their ideas and writing process. Instructors may take further action if it is believed that it is more likely than not that an academic integrity violation occurred, including reporting a violation of the Student Code of Conduct to the Dean of Students Office.

Examples of Academic Dishonesty

Knowingly performing, attempting to perform, assisting another in performing, or failing to report an act of academic dishonesty; 
Directly quoting or paraphrasing another’s words without appropriate citation and punctuation;
Overusing quotations in a written work;
Using unauthorized materials during an exam;
Submitting a single assignment for multiple courses without the instructors’ knowledge or permission;
Submitting assignments as one’s own when they are not, including work produced wholly or largely by ChatGPT or other AI, something written by a peer, family member, or paid writer, or something copied from another source;
Misrepresenting or falsifying material;
Misrepresenting circumstances such as illness. 
Artificial Intelligence

All students should be familiar with the college's policy on Acceptable Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Academic and Administrative Purposes and the Academic Integrity Policy for Academic Dishonesty Matters.

For this course, my expectation regarding the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is as follows:

AI Use Permitted Unless Stated Otherwise

Suggested Syllabus Statement: “The use of artificial-intelligence (AI) tools – including but not limited to text, image, video, or code generators, research assistants, or problem-solving systems – is permitted unless the instructions for an assignment, activity, or assessment explicitly state otherwise. Unauthorized use of AI may constitute academic misconduct under the college's Policy on Academic Integrity. If you are unsure whether an action constitutes AI use, ask me before proceeding.”

Attendance Policy and Absences

Attendance is a strong indicator of success in this class! Please plan to attend all class sessions and be on time. If you must be absent, please review the college’s attendance policy. 

It is a best practice to inform me when you must be absent (see my preferred communication method) and discuss the option(s), if any, to make up missed assignments, tests, exams, etc. You do not have to share why you are absent with me directly. If you wish to provide documentation needed for the absence to be considered excused, you may submit this to the Dean of Students, and they will work with you and me.

Complaints and Grade Appeals

If you have course-related issues, please schedule an appointment to meet with me. (See the Faculty Information above for contact details). If we are unable to resolve the issue you may contact the department chair. You may seek further assistance, if needed, through the Dean’s office. The college also offers you the option to file a written student complaint. 

Final grade appeals may also be filed if you believe there is an error. 

The student complaint process and the grade appeal process are both outlined in the Student Handbook. 

Learning Resources

The college offers services and resources designed to help you succeed. 

Academic Enhancement Center (AEC)

The AEC provides in-person tutoring, online tutoring via Tutor.com, and structured study sessions known as Peer Supplemental Instruction (PSI), as well as academic coaches who can advise you on study, test-taking, and time management skills. 

Kaufman Library

The Kaufman Library is home to full-text articles, e-books, reports, statistics, and videos. The librarians and library staff are available to assist you with locating resources, research needs, course assignments, and more. 

Disability Services

Disability Services provides reasonable accommodations to ensure accessible educational and social environments. If you believe you require an accommodation, initiate a request for services. 

Information Technology

You may contact the Help Desk if you experience issues with using the technology needed for this course. Software, including Microsoft Office 365 and Adobe Express, is available for your use in computer labs and classrooms. If you need access to a laptop, the college offers a limited quantity, need-based laptop loaner program.

Access and Accommodations
Access and Accommodations

It is important that all students have equal access to the classroom and their education. If you have already established accommodations with Disability Services, please provide me with your Faculty Accommodation Notification, with your approved accommodations listed at your earliest convenience.

If you have not yet established services through Disability Services (located in D-1404), but have a permanent disability (such as, but not limited to: mental health, attention-related, learning, vision, hearing, physical, or health impacts), or a temporary condition that requires accommodations, you are encouraged to contact Disability Services at 678-407-5195 or disabilityservices@ggc.edu.

Disability Services offers resources and coordinates reasonable accommodations for students with disabilities and/or temporary health conditions. Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to creating an inclusive and accessible learning environment consistent with federal and state law.

Pregnancy and Pregnancy-Related Conditions Accommodations Under Title IX

GGC is committed to compliance with Title IX and to supporting the academic success of pregnant students and students with pregnancy-related conditions (pregnancy, childbirth, loss of pregnancy, lactation, and all related medical conditions or recovery).

Students experiencing pregnancy or pregnancy-related conditions may request reasonable accommodations, including but not limited to excused absences, making up missed assignments, restroom breaks, a larger desk, lactation breaks, access to lactation spaces, etc. To request pregnancy-related accommodations, students should contact the Office of Disability Services (email: disabilityservices@ggc.edu; phone: 678-407-5883) or the Office of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance (email: TitleIX@ggc.edu; phone: 678-407-5085).

Students who believe they have been subject to discrimination or harassment because of their pregnancy status or pregnancy-related condition(s) may file a complaint with the Office of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance.

Well-being and Safety

The college offers many resources and services to support your physical and emotional well-being in a safe environment. 

Student Emergency Assistance Programs

Our emergency assistance programs include:

Care Pantry
Provides food and necessities to students experiencing financial constraints. 

Grizzly Thrift
Provides access to free clothing for students. 

Health and Wellness Programs

Health Services offers a variety of services to help you stay well. 

Medical Services
Provides care for minor injuries and illnesses, diagnostic testing, immunizations, and basic over-the-counter medications. 

Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)
Provides mental health services. 

Wellness and Recreation
Provides workout facilities, fitness classes, and intramural sports. 

Disability Services

Disability Services provides reasonable accommodations to ensure accessible educational and social environments. If you require an accommodation, initiate a request for services. 

Safety and Security

Public Safety offers many services to help you stay safe on campus, including safety escorts. 

You’ll want to stay informed about campus closures and other safety-related notifications via Rave Alert. 

Grizzly Care Team

The Grizzly Care Team brings together professionals from across the college to help you or other members of the college community who may pose a threat to the safety of the college community or an individual. If you see someone experiencing challenges, appearing distressed, posing a threat to their safety or someone else’s safety, or causing a significant disruption to the GGC community, please submit a Grizzly Care Team referral. 

Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Statement
Notice of Non-Discrimination

Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to providing a learning, working, and living environment that promotes personal integrity, civility, and mutual respect and is free of all forms of discrimination and harassment. In accordance with applicable law and Georgia Gwinnett College’s Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy, Georgia Gwinnett College prohibits discrimination on the basis of an individual’s race, color, sex (including sexual harassment, marital, parental, and pregnancy status), sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, ethnicity or national origin, religion, age, genetic information, disability, creed, or veteran status (“protected status”), or any other protected status or characteristic as defined by law, in its programs and activities. No individual shall be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to unlawful discrimination, harassment, or retaliation under any GGC program or activity because of the individual’s protected status.

Georgia Gwinnett College is an equal employment, equal access, and equal educational opportunity institution. It is the policy and practice of our institution to recruit, hire, train, promote, retain, and educate persons without regard to their protected status, as required by applicable state and federal laws (including Title VI, Title VII, Title IX, ADA, Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and Executive Order 11246).

Any individual who feels that they may have been discriminated against should contact the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance office at titleix@ggc.edu or 678-407-5085.

Students requiring disability related accommodations, please contact Disability Services.

The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the non-discrimination policies:

Sharon Stellato, J.D., Interim Title IX Coordinator

Building B, Suite 3700

678.407.5085

TitleIX@ggc.edu

For more general information, please visit the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Office’s website.

Sexual Misconduct Statement

Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs or activities operated by recipients of Federal financial assistance. Georgia Gwinnett College is committed to creating a safe learning environment for all members of our community, free from gender and sex-based discrimination, including sexual harassment, domestic and dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, in accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972. If you or someone you know is experiencing any of these behaviors, the College has staff and resources on campus to support and assist you. For a list of resources, please visit Sexual Misconduct Resources.

Please note that the Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Policy 4.1.7 designates all faculty members, including teaching assistants, as “Responsible Employees.” Under GGC’s Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Policy, all “Responsible Employees” must report all disclosures of sex or gender-based discrimination or violence to GGC’s Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX Coordinator will reach out to provide resources, support, and information after receiving a report, but community members are not required to respond to such outreach. Reported information will remain private.

If you have (or someone you know has) experienced any form of sex or gender-based discrimination or violence and wish to speak with someone confidentially, please contact GGC’s Title IX Coordinator at TitleIX@ggc.edu or 678-407-5085. For more information regarding GGC’s Title IX procedures, reporting, or support measures, please visit the Equal Opportunity and Title IX Compliance office’s website. 

Support·Community·Privacy Policy·v2026.03.18.15.02·© 2026 Simple Higher Ed
Syllabus management system